---
title: "SparkPost Deliverability Metrics"
redirect_from: "https://support.sparkpost.com/customer/portal/articles/1929969-sparkpost-deliverability-metrics"
description: "Spark Post Metrics Metrics represent the lifecycle of your transmissions emails Metric data captured by Spark Post is generated from the time your application or service creates a transmission until the targeted recipients engage with your message and all points in between Accepted Indicates if your transmission has been accepted..."
---

## SparkPost Metrics

Metrics represent the lifecycle of your transmissions (emails). Metric data captured by SparkPost is generated from the time your application or service creates a transmission until the targeted recipients engage with your message...and all points in between.

*   **Accepted**
    *   Indicates if your transmission has been accepted by the recipient's email provider or remote domain has accepted, minus Out-of-Band Bounces.

*   **Admin Bounce Rate**            
    *   The percentage of bounces due to administrative reasons. Admin bounces are things SparkPost is blocking internally - suppression is the most common type of admin bounce.

*   **Admin Bounced**        
    *   Sum of bounces due to administrative reasons over a given time range.  Admin bounces are things SparkPost is blocking internally - suppression is the most common type of admin bounce.

*   **All Bounce Rate**            
    *   Percentage of all bounced messages in your SparkPost account over a given time range: soft, hard, transient, policy, admin, bounces etc...

*   **Average Delivery Message Size**                      
    *   Indicates the sum of all transmission sizes divided by the quantity of transmissions, returned in bytes (includes attachments).

*   **Average Latency First Attempt**                      
    *   Average delivery time in milliseconds (latency) for messages delivered on the first attempt. Indicates the amount of time between your transmission POST request and the accepted time of your recipient's MTA for your email on SparkPost's first delivery attempt for a specific transmission ID to a specific recipient

*   **Average Latency Second and Higher Attempts**                                   
    *   Same as "Average Latency First Attempt", except this time is the average for any subsequent attempts (in the event SparkPost is unable to successfully deliver the message on the first attempt)

*   **Block Bounce Rate**            
    *   The percentage of targeted transmissions which have block bounced in your SparkPost account. A block bounce occurs when a transmission is rejected by the receiving server due to filter reasons, such as: URL blocks, lack of proper headers, email filtering issues, etc...

*   **Block Bounced**        
    *   The count of targeted transmissions which have block bounced within your SparkPost account.  A block bounce occurs when a transmission is rejected by the receiving server due to filter reasons, such as: URL blocks, IP Blocks, lack of proper headers, etc...

*   **Bounced**
    *   Indicates the quantity of bounced transmissions for your SparkPost account. A bounce occurs when an email cannot be delivered for any variety of reasons. Includes both In-Band and Out-of-Band bounces.

*   **Click-Through Rate (approximated, and may not be real-time)**                                              
    *   Percentage of recipients who have clicked (one or more times) on linked content divided by the amount of all transmissions. This metric uses the Unique-Clicks metric.

*   **Clicks**
    *   Sum of all clicks on linked content across all rendered transmissions in your account during a given time interval

*   **Delayed**
    *   Indicates the count of delayed transmissions in your account at a given time caused by temporary failures. Delays are caused by a variety of factors. The primary cause for delays in SparkPost are good for your reputation, because SparkPost uses Message System's Adaptive Delivery Network to ensure message throughput does not exceed ESP volume limits

*   **Delayed First Attempt**              
    *   Count of transmissions which were delayed on the first attempt for delivery in a given time interval

*   **Delivered First Attempt**              
    *   Count of transmissions which were accepted by recipient's MTA on the first delivery attempt

*   **Delivered Second and Higher Attempts**                           
    *   Count of transmissions which required more than one delivery attempt to complete

*   **Delivery Message Volume**               
    *   Sum of all transmissions delivered in a given time interval

*   **Generation Failure**        
    *   Indicates the quantity of transmissions which failed to be generated by SparkPost for intended recipients

*   **Generation Rejection**          
    *   Indicates the quantity of transmissions which were rejected for "generation" by SparkPost due to violation of our terms of service and privacy policy

*   **Hard Bounce Rate**            
    *   The percentage of hard bounces divided by your total transmissions for a given time interval. Hard bounces are when an email/transmission cannot be delivered for a permanent reason, such as: the email address does not exist, not a real domain, recipient server is not accepting email

*   **Hard Bounced**        
    *   Sum of hard bounces in your SparkPost account for a given time interval

*   **In-Band bounces**        
    *   **​**Messages that are immediately returned by the ISP or other remote domain

*   **Injected**
    *   Quantity of transmissions which were injected to or recieved by SparkPost for delivery over a given time range

*   **Open Rate**     
    *   Percentage of rendered transmissions which were opened (can be impacted if customers do not download the tracking image). This uses the Unique Confirmed Open metric

*   **Out-of-Band Bounces**        
    *   Messages that were initially accepted but were returned later

*   **Policy Rejection**          
    *   Quantity of policy rejected transmissions caused by violating SparkPost's policies and T.O.S. for a given time interval

*   **Rejected**
    *   Quantity of rejected transmission requests by recipient in a given account, or rejected by failure to generate

*   **Rendered**
    *   Quantity of successfully delivered transmissions which have been rendered (aka: Opened) in your SparkPost account across a given time range

*   **Sent**
    *   Quantity of injections which have been delivered (or attempted to deliver) by SparkPost (includes multiple delivery attempts, inlcuding all In-Band Bounces)

*   **Soft Bounce Rate**            
    *   Percentage of transmissions which have softly bounced. Soft bounces are when an email cannot be delivered because of temporary reasons such as: a full inbox, too large of a file, etc...

*   **Soft Bounced**        
    *   Quantity of transmissions which have softly bounced.  Soft bounces are when an email cannot be delivered because of temporary reasons such as: a full inbox, too large of a file, etc...

*   **SPAM Complaints**           
    *   Quantity of SPAM complaints received about your SparkPost transmissions over a given time range

*   **Targeted**
    *   Messages successfully injected and rejected by SparkPost. This is associated with the recipients property of your transmission requests

*   **Undetermined Bounce Rate**            
    *   Unidentifiable bounces by percentage of the transmissions which fall into this metric

*   **Undetermined Bounced**        
    *   Unidentifiable bounces by sum of the transmissions which fall into this metric

*   **Unique Clicks (approximated)**                      
    *   Quantity of clicks as counted by unique recipient per transmission in your account over a given time

*   **Unique Confirmed Opens (approximated)**                               
    *   Quantity of opens (rendered) as counted by unique recipient per transmission in your account over a given time range

*   **Unique Rendered (approximated)**                        
    *   Quantity of rendered transmissions over a given time range